Chapter 1 - Java Basics
  - structure of java class
  - executable java application with main method, CLI, and consol output.
  - import java packages 
  - apply access modifier (private, public, protected, default)
  - use of abstract classes and interfaces
  - static keywords to methods and fields
  - few imp features of java components
  
  Java analogy with Organization
  - organizations hirarchical  structure and components =  Java's class hirarchical structure and components
  - organizations department = java packages
  - Restriction in Organizations data = java's access modifier
  - organizations special priviledges = java's non-access modifier
  
  first topic -- structure of java class
    java source code file -- Person.java
    java bytecode file -- Person.class (compiled code for JVM) -- compiled by java compiler
    
  Java class components --
    package statements -- 
      package statement must be the first statement in the java class, if specified. only exception is comments. comments can be first line and package statement can come after that.
      package contains java classes, if not explicitly defined then java class becomes part of default package, which doesn't have name.
      classes and interfaces within same package can be used without prefixing their name with package name, but if used from another package then fully qualified name is required, like, "java.lang.String".
        -- to avoid writting fully qualified names repeteadly, we can use import statements to import packages and their classes.
      
      following are few compile errors related to package statements:
        a. package statments can't be placed with in class curly braces, or after class definition. code wouldn't compile.
        b. a class can't define multiple package statements
        
    import statements --
      this always comes after package statement but before class definition.
      if order of this statment changes then code will not compile.
    comments --
      are used to describe or add comments to code.
      two way can be implemented --
        a. multiline comment --> /* to start , */ to end
        b. single line comment --> //
      comments can precede package statement
      
      
      
    class declaration {
      variables
      comments 
      constructors 
      methods
      nested classes -- not included in this exam and book
      nested interfaces -- not included in this exam and book
      ENUM -- not included in this exam and book
    }
